- [Narrator] We saw Java applications deployed as pods
in our Kubernetes application.
When we were invoking that application
the traffic was about 50% split
between each of those applications.
But one of the power of Istio is
that the rules configuration and traffic routing
let's you control the flow of traffic
and the API calls between services.
It can exactly define
how much traffic should go to one service.
This is particularly relevant
if you're doing Canary testing or A/B testing.
Let's see how we can accomplish something like that.
So we are in this directory here.
Go to manifests.
Standalone.
Open up greeting.
Istio.yaml.
And we go very much to the bottom here.
On line 46 we have 50 weight assigned to greeting hello
and on line 52 we have 50 weight assigned to greeting howdy.
Let's change that weight.
Where we make this 90 and make this 10.
So now, when we invoke the service, 90% of the traffic,
about 90% of the traffic, should go to greeting hello,
and about 10% of the traffic should go to greeting howdy.
Let's save it and get out of it.
Apply those changes now.
As you can see, our virtual service definition has been
updated. So now, the next step for us is to
go head and invoke the service again.
We're going to use the same command that we did earlier
and just to get a better sample instead of 10 times,
we'll invoke this 50 times.
We change the number to 50 here and hit enter.
As you can see, most of the responses have been hello,
one howdy.
Now again this is expected over a large sample.
So if you're saying the we worked 50 times,
about 5 times should have been howdy.
But again, this is a small sample so let's try to run this
command once again.
And if you go here now, one, two,
three,
four,
five,
six, seven.
So about 10%. Let's try to run this once again.
One, two, three,
four,
five.
And this is exactly 10%.
So the idea being that all a large sample
if you do multiple times, about 10% of the traffic
will go to one service and about 90% of the traffic
will go to another service.
Now, you can start setting up health checks.
You can start setting up monitoring alarms
and see as you're doing Canary and A/B testing of your
Java applications, in the Kubernetes cluster
how you can automatically apply a new
virtual service definition based upon those health checks
and that's what makes Istio that much more interesting.